/MAST-HLSP/PREP_CAOM/README.md  
:Updated: 2018 Mar 5  
:Author: Peter Forshay  

The files in this directory are used to create an XML document that will  
allow data files from an HLSP to be ingested into CAOM.  The Python scripts  
attempt to automate as much of the process as possible, and we try to provide  
templates and guidance for necessary HLSP-specific coding.  The file  
structure is described below:  
___
## Instructions
To begin a session using the GUI, simply enter:  
+ python launch_gui.py
If you already have a YAML .config file prepared, you can launch straight  
into template file generating using the following:  
+ python hlsp_to_xml.py <config file name>
___
## Contents
### /PREP_CAOM/  
+ launch_gui.py  
This script launches a PyQt window that contains widgets from  
config_generator.py and select_files.py inside a tabs widget.  This wrapper  
widget allows the user to quit or to launch a popup help dialog.  

+ hlsp_to_xml.py  
This is the wrapper script intended to launch all necessary child scripts.  
The user must also provide a .yaml config file when launching this script,  
which is then parsed and checked for all necessary parameters and file  
paths.    

+ add_static_values.py  
Read in all appropriate static values from hlsp_caom_staticvalues.yaml and  
create CAOMvalue objects.  Additions are made based on data types indicated  
in the user-provided yaml config file, as well as the indicated FITS header  
type.  

+ add_header_entries.py  
Read in the header keywords translation table based on which header type  
the user has designated.  Create a CAOMheader object for each header.  

+ add_product_caomxml.py  
This script crawls the provided HLSP file path and creates a CAOMproduct  
object for each file type matching a set of defined file extensions.  

### /PREP_CAOM/gui/
+ select_files.py  
This PyQt widget is designed to ingest a YAML file generated by the HLSP  
metadata checking step of the ingest process.  This file should describe  
all file types expected to be found for a given HLSP.  Using this widget,  
the user can then select which of these file types to include in a single  
'observation' and set individual dataProductTypes for these files.  When  
the user hits the 'Select these types' button, the selected file types are  
saved to a list and passed to the overall launch_gui widget.

+ config_generator.py  
This PyQt widget allows the user to generate a YAML config file to send to  
hlsp_to_xml.py containing all necessary filepaths and setting information.  
The user can define any number of HLSP-specific parameters to insert, load  
an existing YAML file to modify, or modify default values assigned to certain  
.fits header keywords.  There is also an option to immediately launch  
hlsp_to_xml.py after saving the YAML file.  

+ caom_parameters.txt
This is a text file listing CAOM keywords that are currently built into the  
the template file generation process, and some potentially useful ones that  
are not currently used.  This file is accessed by the CAOM popup window from  
launch_gui.py.

+ help.txt
A help text file launched in a Help popup window from launch_gui.py

### /PREP_CAOM/lib/
+ CAOMxml.py  
This defines a custom CAOMxml object class and subclasses for CAOMvalue  
entries, CAOMheader entries, and CAOMproduct entries.  These classes help  
carry multiple parameters for a given XML entry without resorting to  
dictionaries of dictionaries.  String modules also simplify output of XML  
entries for debugging purposes.

+ ClearConfirm.py
This PyQt widget pops up a confirmation dialog with requested text passed to  
it.  It returns a boolean to allow the user to back out of form reset requests.

+ GUIbuttons.py
This contains a number of QPushButton subclasses defining buttons that are  
used through out the GUI forms.

+ HeaderKeyword.py
This defines a HeaderKeyword and HeaderKeywordList class in order to more  
easily define and keep track of header keywords when populating QComboBox  
objects in the config_generator.py GUI form.  The module to read a table  
of .fits header keywords into these objects is also contained here.

+ MyError.py
A simple Exception class used to pass error messages from one PyQt widget to  
another.

### /PREP_CAOM/resources/
+ hlsp_caom_staticvalues.yaml  
This file contains CAOM parameters and static values to fill them with for  
certain types of HLSPs.  

+ hlsp_keywords.csv  
This table contains CAOM parameter keywords, and a translation table for  
multiple sets of accepted fits header keywords.  Parent xml elements are  
also listed for each keyword.  

### /PREP_CAOM/util/
+ add_value_caomxml.py  
This script recursively creates CAOMvalue objects for dictionaries of  
parameters.  This is used to create entries for the static values in  
add_static_values.py and any user-provided unique parameters defined in the  
yaml config file.  

+ check_log.py  
This script scans the resulting log file at the end of the script to display  
stats on errors and warnings logged.  

+ check_paths.py  
This script contains a number of modules to check user-provided file paths  
and potentially create new directories if they don't already exist.  

+ read_yaml.py  
Read in a .yaml file and return the contents as a dictionary.  
